#summary Guide for new developers.
#labels Developer

== Creating a Release Branch ==

To initially create a release branch, always use the following steps:

 `svn mkdir https://evoke.googlecode.com/svn/branches/releases/0.2`

 `svn copy https://evoke.googlecode.com/svn/trunk https://evoke.googlecode.com/svn/branches/releases/0.2/R1`

 `svn copy https://evoke.googlecode.com/svn/wiki https://evoke.googlecode.com/svn/branches/releases/0.2/R1/src/doc`

R1 is always the first revision.

== 'Setting' a release branch ==

When the binaries for a revision of a release branch are finished, and placed on the http mirror, you must set a property on the copy of the release 
tree. After this point, NO more commits may happen to that revision. You must create a new revision of the release branch and work on that.

You should set it with this command:

 `svn propset evoke-binaries-built "" https://evoke.googlecode.com/svn/branches/releases/0.2/R1`

== Back merging changes into a release branch ==

Always use svn merge, like so:
`svn merge https://evoke.googlecode.com/svn/branches/releases/0.1/R1/src https://evoke.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/src https://evoke.googlecode.com/svn/branches/releases/0.1/R1/src`

=======
`svn merge -r 300:310 https://evoke.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/src .`

Where 300 is the revision of the last Merge on the *release* branch or the merge previous to the one you want to apply, and 310 is the revision you want to commit.

Make sure you run svn diff, and review the changes.

The log message should be formatted like so:

{{{
Merge /trunk/src r310 to /branches/releases/0.2/R1/src

* Item A
* Item B
* Item C
}}}

Please follow this format to the letter, only changing the directories and revisions. This way any scripts will work as intended.

Also, remember to duplicate the items from the commmit you are merging, and any relevant history.

== Creating a new revision ==

As stated earlier, you cannot commit to a revision after the binaries have been built, therefore you must do a copy, like so:

 `svn copy https://evoke.googlecode.com/svn/branches/releases/0.2/R1 https://evoke.googlecode.com/svn/branches/releases/0.2/R2`

The rules for creating binaries apply to every revision, not just the first revision. In this way, our boot versioning system can be used by the users effectively.
