#summary Wrapper for kernel specific mount apis
#labels Command, Doc, Draft
<wiki:comment>
	type: command
	author: heliocentric
	program-class command
	name: mounter
	programming-language: sh
	svnid: $Id$
	svnauthor: $Author$
	svnrevision: $Revision$
</wiki:comment>

`mounter unmount directory`

`mounter list [ proto | fs | <fsname> ]`

`mounter proto://username:password@hostname:port/directory directory`

`mounter proto://username:password@1.2.3.4:port/directory directory`

`mounter proto://username:password@[08fe::24e5:2319:1]:port/directory directory`

`mounter proto:/directory/file directory`

`mounter proto:geom directory`

== Description ==

mounter is a way of mounting filesystems, be they remote or local, in a standard manner. Rather then burdoning the user with remembering what -o options specify the username, the password, port number; they are in a set format in mounter. We borrowed the url syntax, and adhere to it strictly. Also, we have support for automatic creation of md or ggate devices when a normal file is specified, and tearing down the md device when mounter unmount is used.

== Feature List ==

 * Uses an extended URL format.
 * Supports searching for volumes to mount, currently only via tag.

== Required Files ==

 * Path where the file is - port it is in and/or base
    Long Description

== Implementation ==

Implementation Notes

== Bugs ==

mounter does not handle the case where one of the special url characters: /, :, @, [, and ] appear in a field. For example, a username such as blah@whatever.org, which is common in some hosting services.

The proper way to handle this would be to support \ to escape the characters when they aren't to be used as deliminators. Anyone is free to implement this.
