#summary Document viewer.
#labels Command,Doc
<wiki:comment>
	type: command
	author: heliocentric
	program-class search
	name: doc
	programming-language: sh
	svnid: $Id$
	svnauthor: $Author$
	svnrevision: $Revision$
</wiki:comment>

`doc [search string]`


== Description ==

doc is a wrapper for the real man page viewer, and our documents. You specify a search string, for the document you wish to view.

Search string is specified by key=name tuples, any spaces must use quotes, so that the shell will put them into single argv[] entries in the array.

If a = does not exist in an argv entry, it is treated like it was name=*.

Ex.

 * `doc name=mounter` - get the normal doc wiki for mounter.
 * `doc name=close type=libc` - get the close function call definition, as it applies to libc.
 * `doc name=read type=libc doctype=man` - get the read call, and force it to be a typical man page.
 * `doc sh` - equivalent to `doc name=sh`

== Search options ==

 * name - the logical name of the command, function call, etc.
 * type - the type, useful if you have conflicting names, for example, read can be a sh builtin, a libc call, or a function in another language.
 * proglang - the programming language the program or library call is written in.
 * author - author of the program, library call.
 * doctype - man, wiki, useful to force a scope. Default is all doc types
 * output - 
    * tty - output suitable for a terminal.
    * batch - output all results, directly to stdout. Useful for testing time.
    * namelist - output a list of all matching names.
    * filelist - output a list of all matching files.
